---
layout: post
title:  I made a decision
date:   2020-11-10 21:14:00 +0100
theme: tech
lang: English
---

I made a decision.

After reviewing my disappointing academic gain in this remote semester even though the grade is good, I decide to make something that I can have passion about. For the first time I decide to make an application that is cross-platform (I used middlewares like Electrons before but never really tried it on different platform) and useful for me.

For now, I think I am going to make a todo list that is suitable for me. The most convenient todo list I used before was microsoft todo, but there are more functionalities that I would like to have on my own and many existing functions I would like to cut off. For me, the items in the todo list does not need start/finish time, since I always urge to finish all the things on the list as soon as possible. Setting those things up actually wastes time. For now, I just want a list with item description that is short but enough for memorizing, and a status showing if it is done or not. If it is done, it automatically disappears, so I don't have to delete them one by one in the list even though they are done (please microsoft why would I want to see the stuff I have done already).

I think for software like this simplicity is the key. It should be simple enough that users don't have to waste ten minutes setting up stuff to do for next week. If you are done with an item, click on the button and boom it's gone forever. Maybe I can add a counter somewhere just to tell myself how many things I have done today.

Anyway it should be a challenging thing to do since I have never developed something from the ground up totally by myself but I will see. It should be fun.

I also would like to talk about my work at BD but I don't think it is a good time now so I will save it for future. Classes are fine, life is a bit boring 24h indoor. So good I guess.
