---
layout: post
title:  Hey
date:   2022-03-01 21:14:00 +0100
theme: tech
lang: English
---


Hey.

It is almost a year since I wrote on this blog last time. The internship last summer turned out not to be great. I finished my undergrad degree. I moved twice.

There are so much to talk about right now with all the things I have been through and the totally different world. I will try to keep up the blog just as a new sport. I know there rarely is any viewer and that is actually a relief for me. If no one is reading, I can express freely.

On the tech side, I pinned most fintech companies on my blacklist now. I have been asked many times by different fintech companies about possible jobs and I politely refused or ghosted them (sorry). I am not against money technology, I really don't. I really wish I can make something that makes me money directly. It's just my past experience as a Fintech intern does not call to me as a tech zealot. Developers or other tech-related jobs are just the backups to the sales, and all the dirty work fell down to them, and that is not what I anticipated. I had many conversations with the CTO of my past company, and while I do agree customers should be focused first (I work at Amazon now and "customer obsession" is the phrase I hear everyday) I don't believe customer obsession equals to crappy tech works. Tight deadlines do not equal to non-documentation and maaaaaasive messy codebase setup. No. It's not a way to maintain future business and hell you will see more and more developers reject working on such codebase. In Chinese there is a lingo for such codebases: 屎堆, meaning shitpile. No one wants to dig the legacy shitpile, so we just keep shitting on it until someone is required to hold his breath and go in dirty. We just hope we are not the ones forced to stain ourselves.

I have started at Amazon for three weeks now and so far it's good. It's better than I thought because of all the Blind posts I read before I join (I have mixed feeling about the PIP policy), but it is not as depressing as those victims stated (survivorship bias?). My manager is kind and helpful and so is my onboarding buddy. There is many internal tools and lingos and they make me confuse from time to time but at least I am learning. I used to disagree about the software engineering being a MS major, but now I understand there can be many different little things to learn. That's some insight one can never learn from school I guess.

I don't really want to talk more about my life in this post since I am listing its theme to tech. So that's about it I guess, I promise I will write more often.

Stay well.